My name is Andrei Eldenov.
I am a consultant in management
and financial planning.
Today we discuss the topic in the section
of finance, the capital of the company
and the ways of its formation.
Regarding my personal biography,
I want to note that I have been engaged
in financial planning for 15 years
and in my work experience I have
recorded from the position
of ordinary accountant to the financial
director and general manager of
a large jewelry company.
We are considering three topics
on this subject.
The first theme concerns the sources
of finance, where we will have to give
a characteristic of what is finance
for the company, what are the main
functions and purpose of finance for
the economic mechanism, entrepreneurship
and organization.
The second theme will be devoted
to the price of financial resources,
since money is also a commodity,
and at the same time we are customers
from such money providers
as banks, financial companies,
investment organizations.
And the borrowed money we
use to develop our business.
The third issue is the money market.
That is, the offer that exists
today and how this offer
can be used as effectively
as possible.
The main objectives
we pursue when discussing
this topic are to give,
on the one hand,
a methodological
part regarding how the capital
of a business company
is formed and managed.
On the other hand, we are interested
in the practical aspect of what
good and positive methodologies,
practical skills exist in
managers of Russian and Western
companies today.
How can this be used
and exploited in your own
business or in your
own work practice.
About the first topic.
The definition of capital of
a firm is defined
as the total value of funds
in monetary, material
and intangible forms, which
is invested in the formation
of assets undertaken
to the organization.
Every business starts with
start-up capital.
Regardless of whether the
company is organized from scratch
or it is the object of allocating
to a subsidiary structure of
some amount of assets previously
effective or less effective
used by the parent company.
We assume that the allocated investments
are undoubtedly multiplier-
oriented, that is, the owners assume
to receive additional net cash
flow, which will be able to increase
the value of assets in material
and intangible form and, accordingly,
by increasing the value
of the business, by
increasing the net cash
flow through the received profit,
the shareholders perform
the tasks assigned before
the general meeting of shareholders
and are satisfied with the
investment investments that
have been made in the business
of a particular
business entity.
Here, it is also necessary to note
a very important point that in terms
of the company’s capital we say
that yes, the main and most acceptable
source of financing for any
business is net profit.
But in addition, if the company
has the opportunity to take advantage
of a favorable external environment,
that is, when there is the opportunity
to promote a competitive,
attractive product
or some kind of service to the
market, it is necessary to develop
very quickly and extensively.
Without extensive growth,
unfortunately, it is impossible
to take a leading market position,
and as General Electric President
Jack Welch said, the market could
be either first, second,
or no.
Accordingly, those companies
that, due to certain restrictions,
say, the same shareholders,
do not use borrowed capital
in their development, can
lose in time and may lose
positions.
Accordingly, the impact of
competitors can be compared to
the distribution of gas in the free space.
That is, competitors will occupy
all the free platforms, and subsequently
the delay, which was caused by
insufficient amount of capital
of the company, so that it could
be effectively and extensively
develop, will play a bad
joke.
That is, when the company will be
forced to compete with the stronger
or with the advantage of the external
conditions of the market
favorable conditions from
the competitors.
And competition will affect
the profit that the company
receives and should receive.
Consequently, the receipt of
profits itself may be more problematic.
From which we can conclude that
capital must always act
effectively and focus
on meeting the needs of solvent
customers on the one hand, and
the company should never experience
capital constraints when shaping
its development strategy
on the other hand, if
there are really favorable
conditions.
The slide shows the characteristics
of the company's capital.
But one can distinguish the
following main ones, that capital
is the main factor of production.
That is, it is impossible
to force a business to work
if we do not have sufficient
amount of capital.
In the practice of finance there is such
a term as the threshold of entry into business.
It means that a business
company must have a certain
reserve or a certain initial
amount of capital investments
that will allow to form an
infrastructure for the business
that will enable the business
to be endowed with working capital
in terms of inventories in
terms of customer interaction
and customer debt, cash
and non-cash money that must
be at the disposal of
the company, that is, all
these assets require
a capital amount.
Capital can be formed only from
two sources, either at the expense
of own resources, and this is primarily
the resource shareholders and the
previous net profit of the company.
The second component is borrowed
capital, that is, the capital
that a company can attract in
the external environment,
using the services of banks,
investment and financial
companies, imitating its own
debt obligations in the form
of bills or corporate bonds.
Well, it is also possible to increase the
authorized capital through the issuance of
shares, but in this case the decisions
must be made by the shareholders.
Therefore, without capital, production
is impossible, the stage of product
formation is impossible.
If a company has no production,
it has no product, and
if a company has no product, it
can not sell anything, that
is, the business has no possibility
to exist.
Therefore, capital is of course
the main factor of production,
which must be taken into account,
first of all, in the framework
of financial planning.
Capital is the financial resources
of the company that bring income.
Each shareholder will always
strive to invest resources
in those areas that
give the maximum return.
And will welcome those proposals
and decisions of the
management staff that will ensure
on the one hand the minimum
amount of investment, on the
other hand the maximum amount
of return on investments.
And, accordingly, capital will
multiply with minimal investments,
this is the most acceptable or
most desirable field for shareholders
of the company who are seeking
to develop this business.
Accordingly, if shareholders
invest resources in those projects
that managers offer,
they are still focused
on such criteria as
time.
That is, shareholders are interested
in ensuring that with minimal
investments and maximum return
on invested capital, the business
could still provide such results
for a long time.
That is, investments are necessary
to support, develop and maintain
the achieved result in the
form of net profit or net cash
flow, which is the result of
the company's activities.
The third and important element of
the general characteristics of the company’
s capital is that capital is
the main source of the formation
of the well-being of its owners.
Net profit as a result of the
company's activities is in the balance
sheet of any entrepreneur
of the organization part of the
own capital or just the result,
the added value to the total
value of the company, which
for a certain period of time received
the managers of the company,
who manage and operate the
assets of the company.
And the stockholder’s stock
is not only valued in the form of
the dividends they receive,
that is, as an element of the
distribution of net profit, but
also as an increase in the value
of the company’s business itself.
And we, of course, in recent years
are focusing more and more on
the area of the value of our
business.
The cost of business can grow as a
result of external factors, that
is, assume, in general, the industry
is favorable to the market situation,
when suppliers who work in
a separate industry, have all
increased demand for the
products produced, at the same
time with the increase of
prices for this product.
If you consider hydrocarbon raw materials,
the hydrocarbon raw
materials suppliers have
felt the most favorable market
conditions over
the past seven years.
And, of course, it is thanks to this
element that the welfare of shareholders
of hydrocarbon companies and those
engaged in the processing of hydrocarbon
raw materials, the welfare
of shareholders is rising dramatically
compared to those periods
of time when the market price
of oil was about $13
per barrel.
The price increase has benefited
the net cash flow and net profit
that the company receives, and
at the same time the value of
the shares and the consequent
value of the entire assets
of the oil companies.
The next element of the characteristics
of the company’s capital is that
the capital of the firm is the
main measure of its market value.
If we consider the offer to buy
or prepare the offer to sell our
business, then the most understandable
for both the buyer and
the seller of our assets, or
the independent valuator
who, on behalf of either the
buyer or the seller of assets,
forms the commercial offer,
will be the monetary
valuation.
And the amount of equity, which is
formed from the authorized capital
of our shareholders, who either at
the initial stage of the formation
of the business allocated the
amount of resources for its development,
additional capital as the revaluation
of our assets primarily in the
part of non-currency assets,
assets, possibly, land, which
may be at the disposal of
the company, intangible
assets, long-term
financial investments
in other.
In addition, the net profit
that was received by the company
in previous periods of time,
i.e. in past years and in the
current period of time.
Thus, all three main components
are the components of the
company’s own capital.
And depending on the dynamics
of its change, in the event that
in the declared analytical
documentation or a potential
buyer or potential seller
who is going to sell own assets
sees the corresponding dynamics,
it is calculated in monetary
equivalent, in addition
to the time criterion
and it is possible to estimate
the rate of growth of
own capital.
And this indicator primarily
affects the cost that can
be determined for a given
business.
The next element of the characteristics of
the capital of the firm is that the capital
dynamics of the firm is the most important
barometer of the level of efficiency
of its economic activity.
That is, if we present the net profit
as a logical deduction of the volume
of revenue from the sale that
is at the disposal of the company,
all the funded costs of a current
nature, then we can say that
the net profit has been obtained.
At the same time, we say that the revenue
from the implementation is a favorable
interaction with the company’
s customers.
It is a kind of parity
or arrangement when good to
customers in terms of price,
quality and service that our
company offers on products
and on the procedure
of customer service work.
On the other hand, the costs that are
available to the company are primarily
a consequence of management
decisions that are made by
the company manager.
Any management decision
is costly.
Once the manager makes a decision,
the company immediately begins to
spend money, at least in the
form of the salary fund of the manager
himself, his subordinates,
and the time that is necessary
to implement decisions and
a certain result.
That is, net profit is a consequence
of the efficiency of the management
company, which is represented
by hiring managers.
And if the company or team works
effectively, the minimum
level of costs will provide
the maximum amount
of net profit.
And the capital dynamics of the company
just shows the efficiency of management.
There may be no qualitative
characteristic, but at the same
time an analyst who
considers the statistics
and capital indicators of a company,
both in the equity and in
the loan capital, can determine
what quality or what global
effective state of management
in the company.
A few words about the principles
of capital formation of the company.
The slide presents five
basic principles that can be noted.
First of all, consider the prospects for
the development of the business
activity of the company.
In this case, we say that capital
is always effective if
the company develops
extensively.
That is, additional capital investment
allows you to quickly and
at the same time effectively
develop the company extensively,
open new branches, build additional
production sites,
hire additional staff
of qualified employees
who can more productively
and more effectively
manage the economic
processes that
occur in the company.
But at the same time we are talking
about the fact that in the event that
the company falls into a stagnant
zone, an unstable market situation
in terms of effective solvent
demand, when the company predicts
a stagnant market, and possibly
a crisis, which is expressed
in the fact that the purchasing
activity of our customers
decreases.
At the same time, it is expressed
as the desire of customers to reduce
the price of products purchased
from our company, and at the same
time with the desire or demand
to reduce the volume due to the
lack of our customers,
or investment funds, if we issue,
suppose, the main assets, some
types of equipment, or
it is about the release of
software, that is, when companies
relating to our customers
are treated negatively to
additional capital
investments, this will
of course affect us
as the manufacturers
of the products concerned.
At the same time, the remaining
customers who still use the resources
of the investment volume that
are at their disposal will
claim to reduce prices.
And in the event of stagnation
we are as the prospect of further
development, that is, we plan to wait
or survive the crisis and to focus
all our management efforts on
preserving our capital.
Capital retention on the condition
of reducing revenue from implementation
is possible only through
effective cost management.
That is, when we need to reduce
the costs of both the maintenance
of our business and the costs
related to the main production
or technological processes
that are in our company.
That is, in this case we
consider as a prospect precisely
the task of conserving capital,
but at the same time, from
a strategic point of view,
if our company considers as one
of the elements of its development
strategy the operations to
absorb competitors in the
market, that is, through financial
purchase, or through the combination
of assets, we must consider
a very important point.
In the face of the crisis, our competitors
are at the cheapest price.
And if we have the opportunity to
attract additional amount of borrowed
capital in the conditions of a
crisis, and this can be both the
merit of the managers themselves and
the participation of shareholders,
then in this case in the conditions
of a crisis we can acquire or buy
or absorb our competitors
with minimal costs.
In the conditions of the rise of
the market, of course, all players and with
the growth in the dynamics of equity
all competitors will be costing
as much as possible.
In the context of a crisis, we
can use two approaches.
The first approach is to save
our capital by optimizing
costs and reducing costs.
The second is the increase
in investment activity.
That is, when the available capital
is available, plus the borrowed capital
we are directed to buy our
competitors.
Again, I will emphasize that
only if there is such an element
in our development
strategy, when we consider
options and offers to
buy our competitors,
then this technique
can also work.
The second principle is to ensure
that the amount of capital attracted
corresponds to the amount of assets
of the enterprise.
In this case, it is about the fact
that shareholders can set
a task regarding the
profitability of the company.
And the task is not seen as a
tough dogma.
A task is considered to be the
sense or parity of shareholders
to participate in a business
that has a certain share
or percentage of profitability.
That is, if the profitability
of current activity does
not meet the expectations of shareholders,
shareholders do not want or do
not seek to develop such a
business.
And when we talk about the principle
of ensuring the correspondence between
the amount of capital attracted to
the amount of assets formed
by the enterprise, we mean the situation
where the initial capital is allocated,
and at the same time there
is a task on the orientation
of activity.
This means that after a
certain period of time, usually
one calendar year, it will
be possible to measure the actual
balance sheet of the company and
determine how much the assets
or assets that are at the
disposal of the company
have grown at the expense of
the reinvested net profit.
The second point within this principle
from shareholders may be a limitation
on the attraction of borrowed
capital.
That is, when a company is experiencing
certain risks in such a direction
as financial stability, financial
stability is first and
foremost the ratio of equity
that is at the disposal of the
company and borrowed capital,
especially bank loans and loans
that the company takes in the
external environment to support
its own development, to
increase the volume of production,
respectively the volume
of revenue from the sale.
Shareholders may limit the
management of the company to certain
frameworks or norms, which are
expressed primarily by the
ratio of own and borrowed
capital.
And in the event that we speak about
the need for additional resources,
that is, we claim that loans
are needed, we claim as less, we
will assume in a service or analytical
note to the board of directors
that we are losing certain prospects
and benefits that you could
get in the future only
from the limitations
of normatives.
Very often from the shareholders, which
are represented by the Board
of Directors, there is a formalized
reaction that the norm is set and
in the event that you
really have the opportunity to develop
effectively, you need to start
working with the company's
working capital, that is, as
regards the optimization of
the stocks available to the company,
which are also formed
at the expense of own capital
and borrowed capital.
This applies to stocks of raw materials
and materials or goods for resale.
This applies to the volume of unfinished
production if we consider
the industrial or manufacturing
sphere.
This also applies to debt
management, when timely recovery
or transition to work with
customers to a relationship associated
with receiving advance payment
for previously shipped products
or services ordered, will
allow to increase the rate
of money turnover, which means,
in a smaller amount in terms
of interest rate to get a return
on the invested capital,
that is, profit from current
activity.
And it is the optimum structure of capital
from the position of the asset volume
in the enterprise is also one of
the basic principles.
The third principle is to ensure
the optimum structure of capital from
the perspective of its effective functioning.
It is a condition that the
capital must be exactly
as much as is required for
the most efficient activity.
There are many examples of organizational
procedures of centralization
and decentralization.
That is, if a large structure
is being merged, it will require
a large amount of capital investment,
reach the limit level
of efficiency within the current
activity, and the limit
efficiency within the current
activity can be estimated
based on net sales profitability
indicators,
first of all.
That is, when from period to period
net sales profitability begins
to decrease, this is only
happening by a change in the larger
direction of the costs that
are available to the
company, that is, when the costs
grow at higher and ahead
of the rate of growth of revenue
from the sale, it can be decided
on the cessation of the growth
of assets that are available to
the company, that is, the property
complex, to stop hiring personnel
to the main company and
take an event on decentralization
or asset distribution, when
through the allocation of individual
or subsidiary companies, or
companies with a share in the
share capital of both the parent
company and partners,
attempts are made to reduce
the cost overall of the consolidated
reporting group, and first
of all this is related
to the efficiency
of the group of
companies as a whole.
I also think that here a very important
point should be noted.
In the context of the crisis, we observe
in almost all industries, in almost
all companies, techniques
associated with decentralization.
That is, when companies, striving
to keep the specified parameters
or planned parameters
on performance, allocate separate
blocks of the property complex
to subsidiaries in order
to match the amount of costs
that are in the company,
the amount of income, as revenues
from the sale, which
are at the disposal
of the company.
But, of course, from an organisational
point of view, assets are not disclosed
as uncontrollable missiles, that is,
subsidiaries support the development
and implementation of the company’
s strategy and in no case behave
like uncontrollable missiles.
In the conditions of market growth,
in the conditions of a favorable
situation, the reverse
state, that is, the decentralized
structure representing a
group of companies, begins to
merge into a single holding
structure, there are many
examples when the media
announces the transition
to one share of a particular
group of companies.
The explanation is very simple, this
is due to the increase in the efficiency
of the company's functioning, when overall
the volume of revenue from the holding's
implementation grows, when there is a
possibility to exclude duplicate functions
from the management system, unnecessary
or ineffective.
That is, the volume of costs will
not grow as fast as the volume of
revenue from implementation.
If the volume of revenue from
the sale grows at a higher rate,
this is the first sign that
the capital at the disposal of
the company is being
exploited or used with maximum
efficiency and orderly better
than in the previous
period of time.
The fourth principle is to ensure
that the cost of capital formation from
various sources is minimized.
This is the so-called diversification
of borrowing and it is connected
and treated as equity, if
we allow considering the
largest company in terms of capital
and value in the world as ExxonMobil,
which today is information
confirmed by information
that the free market
is around 99.5% of
shares.
A fully private company.
It is clear that there are
key shareholders who are
holders of large shares, but at
the same time there is a
huge number of frequent
shareholders or small
minority shareholders who
are holders of the company’s
securities.
And, first of all, they are focused
on the growth of the value of
a given company, on the growth of its
capital, first of all in monetary
terms at the expense of the
net profit received.
And all shareholders,
including ExxonMobil, are
trying to diversify capital
raising.
That is, when it comes to the issuance
of shares of the parent company itself,
when it comes to the increase in
the issuance of
shares of separate territorial units.
The borrowed capital.
When companies consider the possibility
of working with not the
only strategic partner, let
us admit in the format of a bank
that is part of a group of companies,
and focuses on diversifying borrowings
related to the cost of money,
related to the time of attraction,
related to the possibility
of allocating certain limits
or the size of credit lines
in a particular bank.
And thus a loan portfolio
company can represent a certain
segmentation when we are more
than banks that serve our
debts.
And this is just about not risking
when managing borrowed capital
or, as they say, not laying
all the eggs in one basket
and not working with a
single key partner on the borrowed
capital front with
a single key bank.
Any monopoly allows you to
dictate conditions, including if
we work with one bank, then all
issues related to the change of terms
of credit contracts or agreements,
with the terms of lending,
with the interest rate,
with the terms, with the volumes,
will be associated with
certain difficulties.
To avoid these difficulties,
you can use different
sources of borrowing capital
formation.
The fifth principle is to ensure
the highly efficient use of capital
in the process of economic activity.
We talked about that.
The only indicator that shows
the effective use of capital
is first of all net profitability
of sales, secondly
the value of the company's
business as a whole,
which is mainly made up
of the size and dynamics
of the change in the
larger side of the
company's own capital.
In the next slide you can see
the systematization of capital
types by the main
classification features.
When the question arises
about the practical significance
of this classification, we
first say that this slide
attempts to reach leverages
or some elements to some
areas of capital management
in the company from
general to private.
According to the company, there
are two major groups of
capital, own and default capital.
The purpose of the use of
productive capital is, of course,
the one that is the source of
the formation of non-currency
assets of the company, as regards
the first of the basic
assets, which are the
infrastructure for
production processes.
And, of course, capital is the
basis for the formation
of working capital, that is, that
which is sometimes called working
capital or the working capital
of the enterprise is the
source of generating net profit.
That is, through the current
funds, any company
finances its own current activities.
The source is also the company capital.
The Judicial Capital.
We use ship capital or
borrowed capital to expand
our company.
We have inefficient
management to solve some
current fire problems.
That is, when we lack money,
we use the capital to
recredit, to wait for a certain
period of time for more
favorable conditions,
primarily in business activity.
And thus we have the opportunity, at
the expense of the partner bank
with us, to solve these problems.
Speculative capital is a
very important point in
terms of speculative capital.
Many companies, now Russian
companies, use speculative
capital to regulate
foreign debt.
If we, say, simulate our
own bills or bonds, often
companies can buy back their
own debt obligations
in the market, when, say, they
are not favorable or, say so,
low quotes, uninteresting,
say so, for their mass
the main holder of corporate debt
obligations in the person
of investors, speculators,
then the company can act
as a buyer of its own debt,
and at the same time
with the growth of the market,
that is, when there is a
need for placing free cash,
the company can sell
its debt obligations.
The same is true of a company’s
shares, when many companies are
buyers of their own shares during
the fall in market quotations and
at the same time are the largest
sellers of their own stock packages
when there is a rise in quotations
or an increase in the value
of the shares on the stock market.
And very often this technique
is used in a situation when managers
know the prospect of the development
of the financial result of the company's
activities for the current period
of time begins to prepare for, say,
a long period before the end
of the financial year, and 9-12 months
before the end of the year begins
the purchase through authorized
companies or on behalf
of shares of the company.
And after there are declarations
that we have received a net profit
increase in order higher than the
official plans, and the official
plans are primarily related to the
company’s development strategy,
then of course there will be a
revival in the market in relation
to the securities of this
company and quotations will
go up.
At this point, the company is
selling its own shares.
The following classification
characteristics of capital
investment.
These variations include capital
in financial form, capital
in material form and capital
in intangible form.
All of the classification
features listed correspond to
the formation of the company's assets
and, of course, have a monetary
valuation.
If we consider the
possibility of implementing
a joint project with our new
partners, then not only in
monetary terms can capital
of both parties be allocated,
but, of course, in material
or in immaterial form.
One example of capital in
intangible form can be considered
such specificity of Russian
business as administrative
regulation or influence administrative
processes, or so-called government
relationship, that is, when
we use intangible assets
of one or another party in
agreement with the authorities,
or when capital in intangible
form can be represented
by trademarks that are
at the disposal of the
company, brands, other
components that belong
to the category of intangible
assets, also formed
from own and
borrowed capital.
The following classification characteristics
by investment objects.
Capital is primarily directed to increase
the principal capital or non-currency
assets of the company and the working
capital or to form the working
capital of the enterprise,
in the form of being in the process
of turnover.
The famous Marxist formula “money,
commodity, money, stitch” and set
the boundary or the gradation of
the circulation of capital that
exists in all branches.
That is, capital can be in the
form of money, capital can be in the
form of production and capital can
be in the form of commodity.
As for the first, second and
third components, it never and
in no case implies a halt
in capital or a halt in capital
circulation.
If this happens, we will unfortunately
conclude that the business has
ceased to exist and the absence
of capital circulation in no
way means the possibility
of a rapid recovery
of the rate of capital
circulation.
At the same time, the stop of the
circle of capital turnover means
the absence of net profit
of the company.
The following slide presents the
systematization of capital types
by the main classification features.
According to the forms of ownership, private
state capital is distinguished.
Now this is becoming most
relevant for Russian companies
due to large projects related
to private state partnership.
And when we talk about the
fact that state companies
are key investors in the
national economy today,
this is primarily due to the
favorable global
market conditions for
hydrocarbon raw materials.
And companies like Rosneft and
Gazprom are the largest players
in the world, and represent
state capital.
And the country’s budget is filled in
large quantities precisely from the
participation of the state in the capital
of certain companies.
But at the same time, private
capital is also rapidly increasing,
and it is important to
systematize capital by forms
of ownership in terms of consideration
of joint projects, public
participation and
participation of private investors
in large construction
or urban or system-
forming projects.
According to the legal form of activity,
share capital, share capital
and individual capital
are distinguished.
This is characterized by the capital of open
joint-stock companies.
Poetic capital is capital
limited by social correspondence,
individual capital is capital
of individual entrepreneurs
and individuals.
By the nature of use in the
production process, working
capital is non-working dead
capital.
Working capital primarily
refers to the sources of formation
of the enterprise's main assets,
which are in permanent operation,
as regards the plantation
park involved in the
implementation of the company's
production program.
And also working capital refers
to the formation of the business's
working capital.
That is, everything that relates
to raw materials, inventories, the
volume of unfinished production
that is at the disposal of
the company, the volume of finished
product residues in
the warehouse.
This also includes debt
debt and funds that are at
the disposal of the company.
The non-working dead capital is
primarily linked in non-
working assets with production
capacities that are not
involved in the company.
And this happens less and less often,
but sometimes it happens when a product
position is removed from production
that is not promising or
has no commercial result.
And companies are forced to do something
with the dead capital.
It is necessary to look for buyers
for this equipment, but if
non-competitive products are produced
on this equipment,
it is extremely difficult to
find a buyer of such equipment.
Independent fate awaits dead capital
in the form of assets, that
is, it is the delivery of
waste, raw materials, metal, etc.
The non-working dead capital
also exists in the company’s working assets.
As a rule, these are commodity salaries
or non-liquid commodity salaries,
those that for some reason cannot
be sold on the market, or those
that have been returned by customers
in the form of a failed marriage.
That is, it is also necessary
to recycle or to be required
at extremely low prices only in
order to at least partially return
the money for that dead working
capital that we have received
in the working assets dead assets
which are called non-working dead
capital arises very often
due to mistakes marketing specialists
and commercial professionals
in the company.
That is, when demand was overestimated,
or for some reason the cost
of the product or service
produced was unsuccessfully
formed, it was not competitive
in the market, not
in demand.
That is, the customer does not want
to pay for it.
There is no way to find a parity of price
and quality, and because of this
there is a certain amount of non-decreasing
balance of non-liquids or those assets
in the trading assets that can
not be sold, unfortunately.
By the nature of the use of
the owner, consumed capital is allocated
or sometimes called consumed capital.
The dividend payments.
If the decision to pay dividends is
made and the shareholders do not send
the received funds for reinvestments,
it can be considered that this
is consumed capital.
Accumulated, reinvested capital
is the reverse situation when it
is decided not to pay dividends,
and all net profit as a component
of own capital to be directed
to increase either the principal
capital or the working capital,
that is, to direct funds
to purchase non-currency
assets in the company,
machines, equipment, possibly
new technologies, new software
tools, computer equipment,
other components, that is,
everything that is related
to modernization inining
the infrastructure
in working condition.
Or a decision is made to direct
net to increase the volume of purchases
of raw materials and materials or
goods for resale, to increase
market activity regarding marketing
activities, such as
shares, participation in advertising
exhibitions, etc.
According to the sources of attraction,
national domestic capital
is allocated, one that is formed
by Russian banks and sold in the
form of credit contracts or supplied,
there is a supply of resources for
enterprises, and, accordingly,
national domestic capital
has a certain value because
of the fact that the inflation
impact in Russia is still slightly
higher on the economy than
in Europe, and then the value
of national domestic
capital is higher than
the value of Western capital.
This is also related to the stability
of the economy.
The Russian economy only in
the last 5-6 years has shown steady
growth, and growth is linked to
long-term trends, but for now the
market is not responding so
responsively to the increasing volume
of stability in the economy
and still compared to the Western
markets, the cost of attraction
in the domestic market is
higher than attraction in foreign
markets.
The second category of
sources of attraction is
foreign capital.
Cost of the enterprise capital.
The slide provides a reasoning
for the fact that the value
of capital is the price that
the entity pays for its attraction
from various sources.
It is clear that attracting is
part of any business’s search function.
And in the event that the company
purposefully seeks sources of
capital, it is possible to get
good results in terms of the
value and quality of the capital
acquired, either in temporary
use as regards bank credit or permanent
use, which is acceptable as
regards share capital, the
main areas of use of the capital
value indicator in the enterprise's
activities are allocated, since
the value of capital
serves as a measure
of the profitability
of operational activity.
It is meant that the increase
in equity capital due to the
net profit received by the company
can be estimated through the
operating performance,
that is, the intensity
of the company's net profit,
how it affects the growth
of the value of capital.
The second component is
the value of capital used
as a criterion process
for real investment.
In the event that we are talking
about the fact that
we have diversified areas of activity,
at the same time each of the areas
of activity has certain
prospects, that is, someone of
the managers today oversees the
key areas that have already
gone to the planned capacity, where
the value of capital and the
increase in this value at the
expense of the net profit received
is already clear.
Understood the amount of capital
attracted by the side, the price
of this capital, the methods of
attraction, either temporarily
or on a permanent basis,
in this case we say that the company
can build certain criteria,
which are exactly in the
value of capital of individual
areas of activity.
In the event that the company
is not linked to a rigid industry
strategy, let’s assume that
we are dealing only with
one business area,
accompanying when they have the
right to exist, but
oriented to sell.
Sometimes companies use
this strategy.
When we say we are a
diversified company and no
longer operate as a branch
or specialized company, but
more as an investment
company.
That is, we invest funds primarily
in those areas of activity
where the value of capital
is the main criterion.
If the value rises faster,
if the value rises with the expected
outcome for shareholders, we
will, of course, invest
in these directions.
The cost of capital is the basic indicator
of the formation of the
efficiency of financial
investment, the third component.
It is meant that the value of capital
is an undeniable and, say so, not long
discussed indicator, which
answers the question of whether
resources are effectively
or inefficiently invested in the
company.
To do this, it is enough to apply the
results of the work accounting period,
the certificates, the state
of the budget plan, the execution
of this budget plan and the
analysis of the financial result of
working with different areas of activity
in our company, the growth of the
company's value as a whole and
the contribution of individual
areas to this value.
The fourth component -
the value of capital is the
criteria for making management
decisions regarding the
use of rental or leasing or the
acquisition of ownership of
production assets is a situation
when we analyze what is more
advantageous for us on the one
hand if we use leasing then in
this case all lease payments
go to tax reduction if we consider
the amount of the company's
own capital, then we say
that the exploitation of
leasing equipment makes a certain
contribution to the net
profit, but at the same time
it would be in order higher
if we did not take the technology
or the basic assets
in leasing, but bought
them through a bank
loan.
That is, then, yes, you would
show more of the company’s
operating profit, while at the
same time we, sacrificing a
24% income tax rate, would show
a greater effect or greater
return on the invested capital
through the net profit rate.
And depending on what the company’
s financial strategy is
primarily focused on, that is,
if it is primarily focused on
the efficiency of current
activities and business activity,
when we need to form the infrastructure,
when we are focused, that only
in three years we will begin
to give information about
the efficiency of our business,
the preparation of bond
loans or to go to
an IPO with our own corporate
securities, then in this
interim period of
time leasing is
advisable.
In the event that we are already
acting as a public company,
which has a formed image on
the market, we focus on not using
leasing schemes, but focusing more
on attracting borrowed
capital and through purchasing
loans, equipment or basic acquisition
of them, we put them on balance,
increasing the size of non-
currency assets and start to
exploit them at lower costs,
since there are no leasing
payments, there is only debt service
and at the same time the entire
volume of revenue from sales
shows an increase or increase
in business activity, at
the same time with a lower
amount of cost to serve
this volume of business
activity.
The fifth component indicator of capital
value in the segment of its individual
elements is used in the
process of managing the structure of
this capital on the basis of
the mechanism of financial leverage.
This is just one of the elements
of efficient capital management
in the company, which
is directly dealt with
by the financial manager,
the ratio of own capital and
borrowed capital that the
company uses.
The essence of the financial
leverage is that if the company
with lower costs associated with
the maintenance of debt, receives
a greater amount of net profit
due to the exploitation of the
capital attracted, and the market situation
allows to increase the volume
of revenue from the sale, allows
to increase the volume
of production of products
or services provided, then
the effect of the financial
leverage is achieved.
Or the reverse situation, when
the service of debt is greater
in cost than the effect of business
activity that the company receives
in the form of net profit, then the
effect of the financial leverage
does not work, and the main emphasis
or main emphasis of activity
in the role of the financial director
is concentrated precisely on
the management of own capital,
when through the optimization of
the turnover funds, when
through the reduction of costs
we are looking for reserves for
the more efficient operation of
the company's own capital.
The following slide is a statement
regarding the value of the capital
of the enterprise.
The level of capital value
is the most important measure
of market value.
The value of capital is the criterion
for assessing and forming
the appropriate type of policy
of financing of the company’
s assets, first of all, of
course, operating assets.
The financial director, considering
the management of the company's
liabilities, and this is own and borrowed
capital, primarily focuses on
the adequacy or balance of
own and borrowed capital, since
the amount of liabilities
of both own and borrowed
nature affects the financial
system.
The financial stability and risks associated
with financial stability,
as borrowed capital must be served,
and this is relative to the efficiency
of operation, that is, when borrowed
capital, if it is used as an
attraction and additional
incentives, additional
increase in the operating assets
or operating funds that
are at the disposal of the company
provides attempts to compensate
for the cost of servicing
the claimed capital and
additional increase in the operating
assets that are at the disposal
of the company by the net profit
obtained precisely from the operation
of the claimed capital on the
next slide presented three main
factors affecting the market
value of the enterprise capital
of the company of the absolute
manager, having the task
of shareholders to increase
the value of the business,
aim primarily to generate
current profit in the amount
that is sufficient to pay
dividends and reinvest
It is very often the case that
shareholders set the task, in
addition to the amount of capital
consumed, to reach a state where
the company is able to re-invest
net profit in current
activity, close the entire investment
budget by its own.
But at the same time, such cases
happen and there are not
very many in practice.
The main limitation is,
of course, competitive
influence.
Once such appear,
many are looking to repeat
success.
And at the current moment,
a limited number of companies,
by reinvesting only in their
own profits, are able to
implement their strategy.
Of course, additional sources
of financing are also
needed, primarily in the form
of borrowed capital.
The second very large component of the
market value of capital of any enterprise
is, of course, the minimization of
the risk of activity and the structure
of the sources of funds.
That is, what we talked about is
the ratio of equity and borrowed
capital, the managable of borrowed
capital, the ability of the enterprise
to stretch events in time to repay
a credit transaction, the art
of the financial director to prevent
the risks of cash breaks
in mind that one loan needs
to be given and the second has
not yet been received, that
is, all this is, of course,
a risk zone for the company's
financial mechanism.
The art of the financial director
is that he minimizes the risks
of the company’s activities as a
whole and reduces the dependence
on the structure of the sources
of funds that are at the disposal
of the company.
And in the case when there is a
struggle for cost reduction,
tactically sometimes, let’
s say, within one calendar
year, everything looks great.
The company pays off the loan and
the company pays interest in time.
According to the results of the
work for the year, information
is that if we did not reduce
the size of the loan portfolio,
the amount of interest
charged and paid for the use of
loans would be the amount of
$ 5 million per year.
But thanks to our policy of early
repayment or repayment and non-
renewal of loans, we have brought
this figure to 3 million
per year.
It seems to be a $2 million
savings, that is a
tactical moment, the result.
What happens next day
or next year?
Conditionally speaking, with the
start of the new financial year,
on January 2, 2008, suddenly
there is a problem related to
the fact that the company
urgently needs additional borrowing
for the extensive growth of the
company, in that production
platform at the same time the debt
market on which we work as a client
in terms of banks is not ready
to us quickly and not ready to
allocate the necessary amount
of resources within one banking
day, the meeting of the credit
committee in banks usually occurs
twice a month at the same time
without the decision of the
credit committee resources
are not determined, there are
certain limitations, that
is, the complexity of tasks
that the financial director
on capital management solves,
as soon as it is reduced to
a balanced policy, not
only to reduce costs, but
also to ensure continuity
of activity and avoid cash
breaks due to the lack
of debt volume bor
The task is complex, but the financial
director must think in
categories for more than
one financial year.
The third, which constitutes the market
value of capital, the most important,
the most key and the most basic, is
the attraction of experienced
management personnel.
And here it is important to note the following
that the financial economic services
of any company, including accounting services
related to accounting, they
are responsible for the effectiveness
of distribution.
That is, everything about
savings, economy, everything
about turnover, but in no case
these services can affect the
business activity of the company.
The most difficult function from a financial
point of view is the sales
function.
Sales, which are supported, on the
one hand, by sufficient cash
flow, which means the volume of shipment
in the corresponding planned indicators,
at the same time the raw price level
for commodity products or services
provided by the company, which
would allow to compensate
for the company's costs and provide
a given level of profitability
of current activity.
Of course, this can only
cope with experienced management
staff not only in the field
of finance, but also in the field
of commercial component
of any enterprise and including
marketing activities.
Therefore, the market value of
the enterprise capital is qualitatively
mediated, but the maximum impact
is made by experienced management
personnel.
The lack of experienced
management personnel, as one of
the elements or as one of the results
of inefficient cost management, when
we start to push expensive
professionals out, is that
a certain inertia time the company
works with good financial indicators,
and, as a rule, such inertia
lasts from 3 to 6 months, and
then there is a very sharp decline,
which is precisely due to the
fact that experienced management
personnel have left the
company, and the remaining
simply do not have the organizational
and professional
experience of work that
was in the previous staff.
There is no continuity of
personnel, but three to six months
we have fulfilled the task
in a non-thoughtful policy
to cut costs and cut the
total salary fund of personnel
by several percent.
At the same time, the risks that the
company carries due to such activities
are incomparably higher.
And the consequences that can
be equated to financial losses are
incomparably greater than the losses
on the wage fund.
The following slide presents the process
of creating the value of the
company's capital.
We are talking about the
fact that implementation of successful
financial alternatives is the
main driving force in the process of
creating capital value of the enterprise.
In this case, the financial
and economic services of the
company more resemble a creative
and creative group.
In the event that the company
is oriented to extensive growth,
it is the financial
and economic function in the company
to regulate internal
processes begins to occupy
a dominant position.
That is, when everything is stable,
the company develops within the
existing infrastructure, there
is no need for extensive growth,
the role of financial and economic
services more effectively starts
when it timely, correctly,
accurately and fully reflects
the entire volume of operations.
And many managers of companies
are beginning to limit financial
and economic services again, bringing
them to a common denominator, trying
to reduce the number of financial
and economic services and perform
other measures to optimize
the cost of these services.
But once there is a problem associated
with extensive growth, with the increase
of responsibility centers,
with the emergence of new branches,
with the appearance of new organizational
units in the organizational
structures of the company,
we begin to understand that
the lack or insufficient qualification
level of financial and
economic specialists can play
a big damage or cause
a big loss to the company.
That is, you need to get the current
management, there is no staff.
And that is why, of course, within
the framework of capital management
and within the prospect of the company’
s market value growth,
we focus on unconditional growth,
but at the same time we
argue that saving in this case
on the personnel components is
in no way possible.
This also applies to the creative part of
the business, as regards the revenue indicators
from sales, sales and marketing
functions in the company.
This also applies to the distribution
functions in the company, for which
the financial and economic
services are responsible.
So, the scheme shows that, on the
one hand, we must act and function
effectively the system
of selection and making reasonable
investments of resources.
They are defined by shareholders
as part of the company’s strategy,
and at the same time the manager
forms an investment budget
for the implementation
of the strategy.
The choice and use of funding
sources must be careful.
Here the area of responsibility
is shifted to the tactical level and
the financial and economic services
are conducting a policy
of diversification of resources related
to the borrowing market,
conducting measures to minimize
the cost of these resources, conducting
a event to restructure the credit
portfolio from the point of view
of serving banks and increasing
this amount, in terms of the distribution
of financial flows and the ability
to trade, if so, or to receive
large preferences from banks,
but at the same time 100%
fully fulfill their own
obligations to serve
the debts that are at
the disposal of
the company.
And the third element of
creating capital value of the
enterprise, of course, is the
use of resources to
conduct competitive and cost-
effective activities.
These three blocks are the elements
of creating a reasonable market
value of capital.
Very often there is a situation in
the market that some of the
competitors are extremely successful
in selling, extremely successful
and aggressively enter new markets,
attract new customers, but
at the same time a short
period of time, which can
change in a year, two years,
can occupy leading positions.
But they are followed, say, second
in the line of those companies
that have very effective capital
management methods, those who are
creative and risk-free to
the sources of financing
of their activities, and these
companies choose the customer mass
of yesterday's leaders, giving
more effective offers on prices,
payment terms, on service.
And customers, of course, choose what
is more advantageous for them in terms
of price, quality and service.
Therefore, consideration of the prospect of the
three blocks of creating the value of the enterprise
capital within the framework
of the financial and economic policy
of any company is extremely important.
The following slide shows the structure
of the company’s own capital.
The structure of own capital consists
of five components.
Three of the key ones we discussed are
related to the authorized capital, the
additional capital that is formed
from the revaluation in the company’
s non-exchangeable and operating
assets, and net profit.
In addition, social targeted
financial funds can be allocated
in the structure of own capital,
which are also filled
with the net profit
received by the company.
The so-called reserve funds, or
reserve capital, may be formed
for possible negative conditions.
Negative events that
can be predicted or cannot
be predicted but may
occur.
Or the so-called force majeure conditions.
In the event of loss
of part of the property complex,
reserve funds may be required
to restore it.
Losses can be related to both
natural disasters and, for
example, to the safety of individual
production processes.
In addition, very often reserve funds
and the use of reserve funds are
associated with the interaction of
insurance companies, which receive
from the company’s reserve funds
payment for their insurance services,
but at the same time guarantees
the smooth functioning
of the company or a way out
with minimal loss in the
event of force majeure conditions.
In addition, other forms of equity
are possible, which can be expressed
in various types of mutual
aid casinos.
This is an effective and, let’
s say, grateful old legacy of
the Soviet economy.
These can be various internal
funds in the company, which
have a targeted direction for both
consumption and accumulation.
These can be funds for
the stubbing of young
employees, New-Okr funds, other components.
Sources of the formation of own financial
resources are presented in the
following slide.
There is a global classification of
the allocation of internal and external sources.
We are talking about the fact that
from the inside, own capital is formed by
the profit that remains at the
disposal of the firm.
Amortisation deduction
from the used assets
and intangible assets.
And here I wanted to point out the following
specificity that in the West,
depreciation depreciation
is the main source of investment
investments From 45 to 50% on average,
according to experts, all
investments that exist in the
West are made at
the expense of depreciation.
And we can give an example that
if we consider the Italian textile
or the Italian textile
industry, then entrepreneurs
working in the production
unit have the opportunity
to amortize the equipment
used 100% during the year.
This is under the guarantee
that the funds saved by reducing
the taxable base on profit,
namely, by forming an amortisation
fund, will be directed
to purchase of new
equipment.
And, of course, the Italians are the
leaders in the production
of textile equipment, at the
same time with the
entrepreneurs who are leading
the extensive growth of their companies,
who aggressively increase the
production of new products,
new types of fabrics, including
seeking to modernize
the equipment fleet.
The question is what happens to the
equipment that is discharged.
The entrepreneur deals with
the newly acquired equipment with
the support of Italian banks,
the supported equipment through
export-purpose leasing
schemes is sent to Pakistan,
India, China.
For three to five years, this
equipment is operated there.
It is clear that the degree of operation
and the degree of wear reaches the maximum.
And after that, this equipment,
because it is virtually
nothing, or costs a limited
amount, or has a limited
price, this equipment
comes to Russia.
It is not advisable to
say that Russian textile
companies, large
or small, can modernize
their own stock stock, because
it will be impossible
to produce a competitive
product that can be
exported for one simple
reason.
The level of current repairs and the
impact of this volume on cost will
not allow to give a competitive price
for the relevant product in the foreign
markets.
But depreciation deductions
should be accumulated in any company
and should not go to so-called
consumer funds.
Very often companies charge amortization,
pay less income tax, and the
saved portions of resources
go simply to hidden consumption.
Modernization of infrastructure, the
acquisition of new non-currency
assets does not occur.
But other internal sources of
formation of own financial
resources are also treated
as a third component of internal
sources of formation of capital
in the company.
The external sources.
External, of course, relates to
attracting additional share
capital or equity capital.
That is, when a decision is made by shareholders
or founders on increasing the authorized
capital and there is an increase
in shares or an increase
in the number of shares to be
bought for a certain nominal,
further mimicked.
This means that the company receives
external sources of increased
own capital.
Receiving a firm of free financial
assistance is usually considered
within the framework of
holding structures, as a rule, is
considered at the start stage.
Other external sources
of the company’s own
financial resources.
The following slide presents the classification
of the source of the
formation of the financial resources.
In this case, there is a distinction
between long-term and short-term
sources and in terms of long-
term loans and financial obligations,
loans are allocated, the term of
which has not yet arrived and,
as a rule, the term of more than
a year, and in addition to loans,
there may be long-term loans, which
are provided by or in the
form of loans, by players of the
financial market, when there
are specialized companies representing
Sometimes these companies
buy out the issuance of
bills, the issuer of
enterprises that need long-
term loans, and the repayment
period of bills can be
more than one year.
A negative component can be in the
company when long-term loans and
loans are not repayed in due time.
But at the same time, from a financial point
of view, it can be considered that it
is temporary, of course.
The components are also
an element of long-term
loans and loans that are available
to the company.
Short-term borrowing capital
is also formed from loans, banks
and borrowing funds.
At the same time, it is possible
that there is a short-term
and short-term debt on loans and
loans, but here you need to make
such a comment in connection with
the start of the credit bureau, companies
have started to treat very carefully
and very effectively to
repay their own debt obligations.
This also applies to interest payments, this
applies to the repayment of the principal
amounts or the principal body of the loan.
This is due to the fact that the information
is entered into a centralized database,
and in the event of subsequent contact
with other banks, the company may
be refused to grant a
loan precisely because of the
violation of the obligations
to repay loans and loans.
Also, one of the sources
of short-term capital loan
can be the credit debt
first of all to our suppliers,
when we can get a commodity
so-called credit, that is,
this is the supply of a line
of both annuity so-called
payments, equal parts, and
a saldo payment after a certain
period of time, let us say
there 6 months or 12
months.
And in the event that the
so-called commodity credit
from our supplier is presented
at higher prices than the price
list for the current time
at which the supplier works.
The supplier may also benefit
from cooperating with us
through this scheme.
Other short-term financial liabilities
that may be at the disposal
of the company are short-term
borrowed capital and allow
the company to exploit borrowed
capital in its activities.
To classify borrowed funds that
come into the company in the form
of capital can be by the following
blocks.
Well, first, on the whole attraction,
on the sources of attraction,
on the period of attraction,
on the form of attraction and on
the form of security.
As for the form of security,
security must be under
those resources that we attract
from the outside, and as security
can be considered as collateral
of assets of the enterprise
itself, as well as collateral
of third parties or collateral
from third parties in
collateral of the
enterprise itself.
Two aspects of the increase in capital
price must be identified.
The slide presents the management
aspect, such as volume growth, sales,
and the financial aspect, such as
the growth of the company’s operating assets.
As I said before, these two aspects
are constantly present in the strategy
of different companies,
but some might be at the forefront
of the corner, some, suppose,
financial aspect is often
considered a priority
for resale-oriented.
In a traditional situation,
the initiative groups of managers
may apply to the board of
directors to include in the
investment budget of any project,
focusing on the management
aspect, that is, on the growth
of sales.
At the same time, the board
of directors can adjust this
application and say, as
a example, we are willing to
allocate you $10 million to implement
the project, and we agree
that the net profit from the
project will be $3 million
in a year, but in addition,
still ensure that the market
value of the new business
that will be allocated to
a separate company
will be around $20 million
in the results of the
first year.
That is, it is a more complex task,
primarily from an organisational
point of view, but for shareholders
the financial aspect may be at
the top of the priority rather than
the management aspect.
The growth of the company's
own capital is represented in the formula
as the ratio of profit divided by
the size of the own capital, minus
dividends, divided by the size of
the own capital, plus the
additional issue of shares
divided by the amount of the own capital.
At the same time, the profitability
of own capital is calculated
as the division of profit to the total
amount of assets or the value
of the property complex that
is at the disposal of the
company, plus the difference
in the ratio of profit to assets
minus the interest that must
be paid for the service of borrowed
capital, to the amount of borrowed
capital, all this multiplied
by borrowed capital.
The profitability of the company’s
assets is calculated as profit in
relation to revenue multiplied by revenue
divided by the amount of assets.
What can be deployed and represented in
the formula is the profitability of sales
multiplied by the turnover of assets.
Regarding the main tasks that are set
before managers in the complex,
that is, regardless of their division
into a separate functional area
of responsibility, shareholders
place tasks precisely in the
intersection of these two aspects.
These formulas can
be used as universal
for any type of business
and they are the
main on the basis
of which you can
determine the
quality of management
in the company
and accordingly
determine the motivational
component in the
overall management
team of the
enterprise.
At the same time, the financial
director is subject to a limitation
on the share of own
and borrowed capital that
the company can operate.
At the same time, it has the task
of supporting profitability,
current activities
of the company.
It is clear that the financial director
is responsible for the distribution
and the cost of the company,
but at the same time he can demand
from the budget committee from
the commercial functional
blocks from Venice and marketing
functional from Venice to perform
the task on shipments and
at a price that would allow
the tasks to be performed on
the orientation of current
activity.
Capital management is the most
important burden on the company’
s financial policy, as it is related
to the final outcome
of the company as a whole.